.TH YTFZF 1 "2021 September" "ytfzf 2.0"

.SH NAME
ytfzf \- search and play videos

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY ytfzf
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ search\-query ]

.SY ytfzf
.RI [ options ]
.RI \-

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ytfzf
is a POSIX script that helps you find videos
from Youtube, Peertube or Odysee
(without API)
and opens/downloads them using mpv/youtube\-dl.

.SH SEARCH OPERATORS

.PP
Search operators are special search queries.
.PP
Standard search operators include:
.RS
.TP
.IR :help
Prints a possibly brief description of how to use the scraper.
.RE
.PP
Addon scrapers may have more or less search operators

.SH OPTIONS

.PP
Information
.RS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help text.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show ytfzf's version.
.RE

.PP
How to play the selected videos.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-download
Download the selected videos.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR is_download .
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-audio\-only
Play audio only.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR is_audio_only .
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-formats
Show available formats before proceeding.
.TP
.BR \-\-format\-selection=\fIscreen\fR
The format selection screen type to use.
.PP
.RS
Types:
.RS
.TP
.IR normal
.TP
.IR simple
.RE
.RE
.RS
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR format_selection_screen .
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-format\-sort=\fIsort\fR
The \-\-format\-sort to use in ytdl.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR format_selection_sort .
.TP
.BR \-\-video\-pref=pref
Set the ytdl video format to pref.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR video_pref .
.TP
.BR \-\-audio\-pref=pref
Set the ytdl audio format to pref.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR audio_pref .
.TP
.BR \-\-ytdl\-pref=pref
Set the ytdl format to pref.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR ytdl_pref .
.TP
.BR \-\-detach
Detach the video player from the terminal.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR is_detach .
.TP
.BR \-\-url\-handler=handler
The function/program to use as a url handler.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR url_handler .
.TP
.BI \-I " option"
Instead of playing the selected videos,
get information about them in the selected format.
The available options are:
.RS
.TP
.IR L | l | link
Prints the URL of the selected videos.
.TP
.IR VJ | vj | video\-json
Prints the json of the selected videos.
.TP
.IR J | j | json
Prints the json of all the videos in the search results.
.TP
.IR F | f | format
Prints the video format being used.
.TP
.IR R | r | raw
Prints the data of the selected videos, as appears in the menu.
.RE
.TP
.B \-L
Alias for \-I L
.TP
.BR \-\-info\-action=\Iaction
The action to do when \-\-info\-wait is 1.
.BR info_wait_action .
.TP
.BR \-\-info\-wait=\fInumber
Whether or not to wait after printing info requested with \-I or \-L.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR info_wait .
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-url\-handler\-opts=opts
Opts to pass to the url handler, by default this will pass extra opts to mpv.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR url_handler_opts .
.RE

.PP
Menu options
.RS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-loop
Reopen the menu when the video stops playing.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR is_loop .
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-search\-again
After closing fzf make another search.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR search_again .
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-show\-thumbnails
Show thumbnails.
Doesn't work with \fB\-D\fR or \fB\-H\fR.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR show_thumbnails .
.TP
.BR \-\-async\-thumbnails
Whether or not to download thumbnails asynchronously.
.br
Downloading asynchronously will open the menu before all thumbnails are downloaded.
This can also be set in the config fil with
.BR async_thumbnails .
.TP
.BR \-\-skip\-thumb\-download
Whether or not to skip the thumbnail download.
This is used if you want to not have thumbnails, or use custom thumbnails in $YTFZF_CUSTOM_THUMBNAILS_DIR.
.br
For more info see CUSTOM THUMBNAILS in ytfzf(5)
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR skip_thumb_download .
.TP
.BR \-\-notify-playing
Show notifications when a video is about to be played.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR notify_playing .
.TP
.BR \-\-preview\-side=side
The preview side in fzf.
.br
Options:
.RS
.TP
.IR left
.TP
.IR right
.TP
.IR up
.TP
.IR down
.RE
This can also be changed in the config file with
.BR fzf_preview_side .
.TP
.BR \-\-thumb\-viewer=program
Use program for displaying thumbnails.
.br
Built-in programs:
.RS
.TP
.IR chafa, chafa-16, chafa-tty
chafa, chafa with 16 colors, chafa with 4 colors.
.TP
.IR catimg, catimg-256
catimg, catimg with 256 colors.
.TP
.IR w3m
Uses a workaround to get w3m to work in fzf, may take up a lot of cpu.
.TP
.IR imv
Good with tiling window managers
.TP
.IR kitty
For the kitty terminal.
.TP
.IR swayimg
Only works on the sway wayland compositor.
.TP
.IR <custom>
Additional viewers can be put into $YTFZF_THUMBNAIL_VIEWERS_DIR.
.RE
This can also be changed in the config file with
.BR thumbnail_viewer .
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-external\-menu
Use an external menu instead of fzf.
The default is \fIdmenu\fR.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR interface="ext" .
.TP
.BR \-\-interface=interface
Use a custom interface script, which would be in $YTFZF_CUSTOM_INTERFACES_DIR.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR interface .
.TP
.BR \-\-sort
Sorts videos (after scraping) by upload date.
.TP
.BR \-\-sort\-name=name
Calls a function set in $YTFZF_CONFIG_FILE. Or sources a script in $YTFZF_SORT_NAMES_DIR (if it exists).
See SORT NAMES in ytfzf(5) for more information.
.TP
.BR \-\-fancy\-subs
Whether or not to have a separator between each subscription.
When this option is used it automatically disbables \-\-sort as it will mess up this option.
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR fancy_subs .
.TP
.BR \-\-disable\-back
Whether or not to disable the back button in submenus.
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR enable_back_button .
.TP
.BR \-\-disable\-submenus
Whether or not to disable submenus.
.br
Submenus are the menus that happen after a playlist or channel (currently only supported by youtube/invidious) is selected
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR enable_submenus .
.TP
.BR \-\-keep\-vars
Whether or not options passed into ytfzf also get passed into submenus.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR keep_vars .
.TP
.BR \-\-submenu\-opts=opts
The opts to use in the submenu.
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR submenu_opts .
.TP
.BR \-\-submenu\-scraping\-opts=opts
.B DEPRECATED "(use \-\-submenu\-opts instead)"
Does the same thing as \-\-submenu\-opts.
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR submenu_scraping_opts .
.RE

.PP
Auto selecting
.RS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-auto\-select
Auto\-play the first result.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-select\-all
Select all results.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-random\-select
Auto\-play a random result.
.TP
.BR \-S " \fIsed address\fR" ", " "\-\-select=\fIsed address\fR"
Auto\-play a specific video.
.PP
.RS
Examples:
.RS
.TP
.IR 2
Select the second video
.TP
.IR $
Select the last video
.TP
.IR /^h/
Select all videos starting with h
.RE
.RE

.TP
.BR \-n " \fInumber\fR" ", " \-\-link\-count=\fInumber
The \fInumber\fR of videos to select with \fB\-a\fR or \fB\-r\fR.
.RE


.PP
Scrapers
.RS
.TP
.BI \-c " scrapers" ", " "\-\-scrape=scrapers"
Set which scraper to use.
Multiple scrapers can be separated by comma (,).
The currently supported builtin scrapers are:
.RS
.TP
.IR youtube | Y
Scrapes invidious' api with a search query
.TP
.IR youtube-channel
Scrapes a youtube channel with youtube
.TP
.IR invidious-channel
Scrapes a youtube channel with $invidious_instance
.br
When this scrape is active the search query is the link to a channel.
.TP
.IR video-recommended | R
Scrapes recommended videos from an invidious video link
.TP
.IR youtube-playlist | invidious-playlist
Scrapes a youtube playlist
.br
When this scrape is active the search query is the link to a playlist.
.TP
.IR youtube\-trending | T
Scrapes invidious' api to get youtube trending.
.br
When this scrape is active the search query is the tab of trending to scrape.
.TP
.IR M | multi
Uses ytfzf recursively to scrape multiple things with multiple different options
.br
See \fIytfzf -c M :help\fR for more info
.br
Tabs:
.RS
.TP
.IR gaming
.TP
.IR music
.TP
.IR movies
.RE
.TP
.IR youtube\-subscriptions | S | SI
.I SI
Scrapes invidious for channels instead of youtube. Scraping youtube may result in rate limiting.
.TP
.IR scrape\-list | SL
uses your $YTFZF_SCRAPELIST_FILE as scrape and search input.
See "scrape lists" ytfzf(5) for more information.
.TP
.IR peertube | P
.TP
.IR odysee | lbry | O
.TP
.IR history | H
(Only if $enable_hist is enabled)
.TP
.IR url | U
Opens the url in the video player and exits
.TP
.IR comments
Scrapes the comments of a video link from youtube
.RE
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-history
Alias for \-c H.
.br
Scrapes history file.
.TP
.BI "\-\-scrape+=scrapers"
Same as \-c, but keeps the default scrape as well.
.TP
.BI \-\-scraper-=scrapers
Removes scraper from list of scrapers to use
.TP
.BR \-\-multi\-search
Whether or not to use multi search.
.br
To use multi search, seperate each search with a comma, this works well when using multiple scrapers.
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR multi_search .
.TP
.B \-\-force\-youtube
When using the \fIyoutube\fR scraper,
convert the invidious links to youtube links before playing/downloading.
.RE

.PP
Scraper Options
.RS
.PP
Currently, \-\-video\-duration, \-\-type, \-\-thumbnail\-quality, and \-\-features only applies to the scrape: youtube/Y
.TP
.BI "\-\-pages=amount"
Amount of pages to scrape on youtube/invidious, and the comments scraper.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR pages_to_scrape .
.TP
.BI "\-\-pages-start=page"
The page to start on.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR pages_start .
.TP
.BI "\-\-max\-threads=amount"
Amount of threads that can be used to scrape youtube search, playlists, and channels.
(this does not apply to the subscription scraper).
.br
This can also be set in the config file with 
.BR max_thread_count .
.TP
.BI "\-\-single\-threaded"
Set the max_thread_count to 1, this has the same effect as making everything single threaded.
(this does not apply to the subscription scraper).
.br
This can also bet set in the config file with 
.BR max_thread_count=1 .
.TP
.BI "\-\-odysee\-video\-count=amount"
Amount of videos to scrape on odysee.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR odysee_video_search_count .
.TP
.BR "\-\-nsfw"
Whether or not to search for nsfw videos.
.br
Only works with odysee/O
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR nsfw .
.TP
.BI "\-\-sort\-by=sort"
Works with youtube/Y and odysee/O.
.br
To use a different sort for each scrape, use comma (,) to separate the sorts.
.br
As apposed to \-\-sort, this happens during the search, not after.
Results should sort by:
.RS
.TP
.IR relevance
.TP
.IR rating " (youtube only)"
.TP
.IR upload_date
.TP
.IR oldest_first " (odysee only)"
.TP
.IR view_count " (youtube only)"
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-upload\-date=time\-frame"
Works with youtube/Y and odysee/O
.br
To use a different sort for each scrape, use comma (,) to separate the dates.
.br
Search for videos within the last:
.RS
.TP
.IR hour
.TP
.IR today
.TP
.IR week
.TP
.IR month
.TP
.IR year
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-video\-duration=duration"
Whether or not to search for long or short videos.
Possible options:
.RS
.TP
.IR short
.TP
.IR long
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-type=type"
The type of results to get.
.RS
.TP
.IR video
.TP
.IR playlist
.TP
.IR channel
.TP
.IR all
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-thumbnail\-quality= quality
Select the quality of the thumbnails.
Available options:
.RS
.TP
.IR maxres
.TP
.IR maxresdefault
.TP
.IR sddefault
.TP
.IR high " (default)"
.TP
.IR medium
.TP
.IR default
.TP
.IR start
The first frame of the video (low quality)
.TP
.IR middle
The middle frame of the video (low quality)
.TP
.IR end
The end frame of the video (low quality)
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-features=features"
The features to have on a video (comma separated).
.RS
.TP
.IR hd
.TP
.IR subtitles
.TP
.IR creative_commons
.TP
.IR 3d
.TP
.IR live
.TP
.IR 4k
.TP
.IR 360
.TP
.IR location
.TP
.IR hdr
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-\-region"
The region (country code) to search.
.br
Supported by the scrapes youtube/Y and youtube-trending/T
.RE

.PP
Miscelanious
.RS
.TP
.BI "\-\-ii=instance", "\-\-invidious\-instance=instance"
Use a different invidious instance.
.TP
.BI "\-\-channel\-link=link"
Converts channel links from 'https://youtube.com/c/name' to 'https://youtube.com/channel/id'
.TP
.BR \-q
Use search history instead of a search.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR use_search_hist .
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-history\-clear=<search|watch>
Clear search and watch history (if \-x or \-\-history\-clear is used)
.br
To specify either search or watch history use \-\-history\-clear=<search|watch>
.TP
.BR \-\-keep\-cache
Whether or not to keep cache after
.I ytfzf
exists.
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR keep_cache .
.TP
.BI \-\-ytdl\-opts= option
Pass command\-line options to youtube\-dl when downloading.
.EX
.RB "example: " \-\-ytdl\-opts= "\fI\'\-o ~/Videos/%(title)s.%(ext)s\'"
.EE
.TP
.BI \-\-ytdl\-path= path
Specify the path to youtube\-dl or a fork of youtube\-dl for downloading.
.br
This can also be set in the config file with
.BR ytdl_path .
.TP
.BI \-\-ext=extension
Load an extension.
.br
You may also add
.I "load_extension extension"
to your config file.
.TP
.BI \-\-list\-addons
Lists all addons and exits.
.RE

.SH CONFIGURATION
The default behaviour of \fBytfzf\fR can be changed by modifying the config file.
See \fBytfzf\fR(5) for more information.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR
The directory to store config files.
The default is
.I "$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ytfzf (or ~/.config/ytfzf)"
.TP
.B $YTFZF_CONFIG_FILE
The configuration file to use.
The defualt is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/conf.sh
.TP
.B $YTFZF_SUBSCRIPTIONS_FILE
The subscriptions file to use.
The deafult is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/subscriptions
.TP
.B $YTFZF_SCRAPELIST_FILE
The scrapelist file to use.
The default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/scrapelist
.TP
.B $YTFZF_THUMBNAIL_VIEWERS_DIR
The directory to keep additional thumbnail viewers.
The default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/thumbnail-viewers
.TP
.B $YTFZF_CUSTOM_SCRAPERS_DIR
The directory to store custom scraper scripts in
The default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/scrapers
.TP
.B $YTFZF_CUSTOM_INTERFACES_DIR
The directory to store custom interface scripts in
the default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/interfaces
.TP
.B $YTFZF_SORT_NAMES_DIR
The directory to store custom sort-name scripts in
the default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/sort-names
.TP
.B $YTFZF_URL_HANDLERS_DIR
The directory to store custom url handlers in
the default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/url-handlers
.TP
.B $YTFZF_CUSTOM_THUMBNAILS_DIR
The directory to store custom thumbnails
the default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/thumbnails
.TP
.B $YTFZF_EXTENSIONS_DIR
The directory to store extensions
the default is
.I $YTFZF_CONFIG_DIR/extensions
.TP
.TP
.B $YTFZF_SYSTEM_ADDON_DIR
The directory to store system installed addons.
The default may vary depending on how you installed ytfzf.
.B $cache_dir
The directory to store cache
the default is
.I "$XDG_CACHE_HOME/ytfzf (or $HOME/.cache/ytfzf)"

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ytfzf/conf.sh
The configuration file. If submenu-conf.sh does not exist, this will also be used as the config in submenus
.TP
.I ~/.config/ytfzf/submenu-conf.sh
The submenu configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.config/ytfzf/subscriptions
The subscriptions file.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/ytfzf/watch_hist
Watch history (if $enable_hist is 1)

.SH CACHE
.PP
Each instance of ytfzf has its own directory in $cache_dir.
.br
The structure of $cache_dir looks like this: (<> represents a placeholder, ? means optional)
.RS
.EX
$cache_dir
| \-\- watch_hist
| \-\- <search>\-<pid>
|  | \-\- searches.list
|  | \-\- post-scrape
|  | \-\- <submenu-search>-<submenu-pid>?
|  | \-\- thumbnails?
|  | \-\- tmp
|  |  | \-\- curl_config
|  |  | \-\- <scrape>.html
|  |  | \-\- <scrape>.json
|  |  | \-\- menu_keypress
|  |  | \-\- submenu.json?
|  | \-\- ids
|  | \-\- videos_json
.EE
.RE
.PP
An explanation of each directory/file:
.RS
.TP
.IR searches.lsit
A list of all searches
.br
If \-\-multi\-search is enabled, each search is seperated by a new line
.TP
.IR watch_hist
The watch history file.
.TP
.IR <search>\-<pid>
An instance's parent folder.
.br
If no search was given it uses the name "SCRAPE\-<scrape>\-<pid>" instead.
.TP
.IR post-scrape
A folder that contains files relating to the scraping of a selected result.
.TP
.IR <submenu\-search>\-<submenu\-pid>
Created when a submenu is opened (eg: when a channel/playlist is selected).
.TP
.IR thumbnails
Stores the thumbnails for the instance (only with \-t).
.TP
.IR tmp
Stores less importatnt temporarily used files.
.TP
.IR curl_config
The configuration file for curl for downloading thumbnails (only with \-t).
.TP
.IR <scrape>.html
For scrapers that need to scrape websites, this is the output of curl.
.TP
.IR <scrape>.json
The json scraped from a website.
.TP
.IR menu_keypress
The key pressed in fzf.
.TP
.IR ids
The file that stores the id of each selected video.
.TP
.IR videos_json
The file that stores a json of all videos displayed in fzf.
.br
This file is very helpful for making playlists as it is in the same format.

.SH AUTHOR
Originally written by pystardust.
.IR < https://github.com/pystardust >

.SH BUGS
Report bugs on github
.IR < https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/issues >

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ytfzf (5)
.BR youtube\-dl (1),
.BR fzf (1)
.BR dmenu (1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
\fBytfzf\fR is free software:
you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the
\fIGNU General Public License version 3\fR as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.PP
\fBytfzf\fR is distributed in the hope that it will be useful but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with \fBytfzf\fR.
If not, see
.IR < https://www.gnu.org/licenses/ >.
